README.md, before:

# 💼 BI-Clients-Segmentation  
### Customer Segmentation Explorer for a Fintech Startup at an early stage 

---

## 🧭 Project Overview  

This Power BI dashboard provides a **comprehensive overview of customer demographics and segmentation** for a fintech startup in its early growth stages.  

It was designed to help stakeholders understand who their clients are and get an initial idea of where the most promising opportunities for growth lie based on the actual customers.  

---

## 🎯 Objectives  

- Segment customers by **demographic characteristics** (age group, gender, education, marital status).  
- Visualize **client acquisition ** over time.  
- Identify **top-performing segments** to guide marketing and product strategy.  

---

## 📊 Key Features  

| Feature | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| **Client Segmentation** | Analyzes customers across demographic variables such as generation, gender, and education level. |
| **Client Acquisition Trends** | Displays how client growth evolves month over month or year over year. |
| **Client Engagement** | Categorizes clients by engagement level — *Novice*, *Curious*, and *Expert*. |
| **Top Professions** | Highlights the 10 most common occupations within the client base. |
| **Client Distribution by Marital Status** | Breaks down customer proportions by marital status (Single, Married, Divorced, Common Law, Widowed). |

---

## 🧰 Tools Used  

- **Microsoft Power BI** for data modeling, DAX measures, and dashboard design  
- **Excel / CSV** as data source for client data  
- **SQL** (optional preprocessing)  

---

## 🚀 How to Use  

1. **Clone or download** this repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ikenigs/BI-Clients-Segmentation.git

Commit message:

Update README with data privacy disclaimer and tools
Added a disclaimer about data privacy and modified the tools used section.

README.md, after:

# 💼 BI-Clients-Segmentation  
### Customer Segmentation Explorer for a Fintech Startup at an early stage 

---

## 🧭 Project Overview  

This Power BI dashboard provides a **comprehensive overview of customer demographics and segmentation** for a fintech startup in its early growth stages.  

It was designed to help stakeholders understand who their clients are and get an initial idea of where the most promising opportunities for growth lie based on the actual customers.  

---

## 🎯 Objectives  

- Segment customers by **demographic characteristics** (age group, gender, education, marital status).  
- Visualize **client acquisition** over time.  

---
## Dataset
Disclaimer: This dashboard is based on original company data that has been obfuscated and modified to protect data privacy. All sensitive or identifiable information has been altered, anonymized, or replaced with synthetic values while maintaining the structure and analytical integrity of the dataset.
---

## 📊 Key Features  

| Feature | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| **Client Segmentation** | Analyzes customers across demographic variables such as generation, gender, and education level. |
| **Client Acquisition Trends** | Displays how client growth evolves month over month or year over year. |
| **Client Engagement** | Categorizes clients by engagement level — *Novice*, *Curious*, and *Expert*. |
| **Top Professions** | Highlights the 10 most common occupations within the client base. |
| **Client Distribution by Marital Status** | Breaks down customer proportions by marital status (Single, Married, Divorced, Common Law, Widowed). |

---

## 🧰 Tools Used  

- **Microsoft Power BI** for data modeling, DAX measures, and dashboard design  
- **Excel / CSV** as data source for the ofuscated client data  
- **SQL** for the original dataset
